---
page_title: "xcsh_dns_load_balancer Resource - xcsh"
subcategory: "DNS"
description: |-
  Manages DNS Load Balancer in a given namespace. If one already exist it will give a error. in F5 Distributed Cloud.
---

# xcsh_dns_load_balancer (Resource)

Manages DNS Load Balancer in a given namespace. If one already exist it will give a error. in F5 Distributed Cloud.

~> **Note** Please refer to [DNS Load Balancer API docs](https://f5-sales-demo.GitHub.io/api-specs-enriched/api-reference/dns/) to learn more.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# DNSLoadBalancer Resource Example
# Manages DNS Load Balancer in a given namespace.

terraform {
  required_version = ">= 1.0"

  required_providers {
    xcsh = {
      source  = "f5-sales-demo/xcsh"
      version = ">= 0.1.0"
    }
  }
}

# Basic DNSLoadBalancer configuration
resource "xcsh_dns_load_balancer" "example" {
  name      = "example-dns-load-balancer"
  namespace = "system"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Argument Reference
-> **Syntax Rule:** This provider uses OneOf groups for mutually exclusive options. Fields documented as "Optional Block" use empty block syntax `field_name {}`, **never** `field_name = true`. Boolean attributes (like `add_hsts`, `http_redirect`) use `= true/false` as normal.


🔶 **High Risk Operations** — Some operations on this resource have high danger level. Destructive operations may require confirmation.

~> **Dependencies** — This resource requires: `dns_zone`.

### Metadata Argument Reference

<a id="name"></a>&#x2022; [`name`](#name) - Required String<br>Name of the DNS Load Balancer. Must be unique within the namespace

<a id="annotations"></a>&#x2022; [`annotations`](#annotations) - Optional Map<br>Annotations is an unstructured key value map stored with a resource that may be set by external tools to store and retrieve arbitrary metadata

<a id="description"></a>&#x2022; [`description`](#description) - Optional String<br>Human readable description for the object

<a id="disable"></a>&#x2022; [`disable`](#disable) - Optional Bool<br>A value of true will administratively disable the object

<a id="labels"></a>&#x2022; [`labels`](#labels) - Optional Map<br>Labels is a user defined key value map that can be attached to resources for organization and filtering

<a id="namespace"></a>&#x2022; [`namespace`](#namespace) - Optional String<br>Namespace for the DNS Load Balancer. The F5 XC API restricts this resource to the system namespace; it defaults to that value and may be omitted

### Spec Argument Reference

<a id="fallback-pool"></a>&#x2022; [`fallback_pool`](#fallback-pool) - Optional Block<br>Type establishes a direct reference from one object(the referrer) to another(the referred). Such a reference is in form of tenant/namespace/name<br>See [Fallback Pool](#fallback-pool) below for details.

<a id="record-type"></a>&#x2022; [`record_type`](#record-type) - Optional String  Defaults to `A`<br>Possible values are `A`, `AAAA`, `MX`, `CNAME`, `SRV`<br>[Enum: A|AAAA|MX|CNAME|SRV] Resource Record Type - A: A - AAAA: AAAA - MX: MX - CNAME: CNAME - SRV: SRV

<a id="response-cache"></a>&#x2022; [`response_cache`](#response-cache) - Optional Block<br>Configuration parameter for response cache<br>See [Response Cache](#response-cache) below for details.

<a id="rule-list"></a>&#x2022; [`rule_list`](#rule-list) - Optional Block<br>Load Balancing Rule List. List of the Load Balancing Rules<br>See [Rule List](#rule-list) below for details.

<a id="timeouts"></a>&#x2022; [`timeouts`](#timeouts) - Optional Block<br>See [Timeouts](#timeouts) below for details.

### Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

<a id="id"></a>&#x2022; [`id`](#id) - Optional String<br>Unique identifier for the resource

---

#### Fallback Pool

A [`fallback_pool`](#fallback-pool) block supports the following:

<a id="fallback-pool-name"></a>&#x2022; [`name`](#fallback-pool-name) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then name will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) name

<a id="fallback-pool-namespace"></a>&#x2022; [`namespace`](#fallback-pool-namespace) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then namespace will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) namespace

<a id="fallback-pool-tenant"></a>&#x2022; [`tenant`](#fallback-pool-tenant) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then tenant will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) tenant

#### Response Cache

A [`response_cache`](#response-cache) block supports the following:

<a id="parameters-3b3c71"></a>&#x2022; [`default_response_cache_parameters`](#parameters-3b3c71) - Optional Block<br>Configuration parameter for default response cache parameters

<a id="response-cache-disable-spec"></a>&#x2022; [`disable_spec`](#response-cache-disable-spec) - Optional Block<br>Enable this option

<a id="parameters-0ffd09"></a>&#x2022; [`response_cache_parameters`](#parameters-0ffd09) - Optional Block<br>Configuration parameter for response cache parameters<br>See [Response Cache Parameters](#parameters-0ffd09) below.

#### Response Cache Response Cache Parameters

A [`response_cache_parameters`](#parameters-0ffd09) block (within [`response_cache`](#response-cache)) supports the following:

<a id="ipv4-f27f02"></a>&#x2022; [`cache_cidr_ipv4`](#ipv4-f27f02) - Optional Number<br>Length of CIDR masks used to group IPv4 clients

<a id="ipv6-f739d0"></a>&#x2022; [`cache_cidr_ipv6`](#ipv6-f739d0) - Optional Number<br>Length of CIDR masks used to group IPv6 clients

<a id="ttl-3f40f9"></a>&#x2022; [`cache_ttl`](#ttl-3f40f9) - Optional Number<br>TTL. TTL for response cache

#### Rule List

A [`rule_list`](#rule-list) block supports the following:

<a id="rule-list-rules"></a>&#x2022; [`rules`](#rule-list-rules) - Optional Block<br>Rules to perform load balancing<br>See [Rules](#rule-list-rules) below.

#### Rule List Rules

A [`rules`](#rule-list-rules) block (within [`rule_list`](#rule-list)) supports the following:

<a id="rule-list-rules-asn-list"></a>&#x2022; [`asn_list`](#rule-list-rules-asn-list) - Optional Block<br>Unordered set of RFC 6793 defined 4-byte AS numbers that can be used to create allow or deny lists for use in network policy or service policy. It can be used to create the allow list only for DNS Load Balancer<br>See [Asn List](#rule-list-rules-asn-list) below.

<a id="rule-list-rules-asn-matcher"></a>&#x2022; [`asn_matcher`](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher) - Optional Block<br>Match any AS number contained in the list of bgp_asn_sets<br>See [Asn Matcher](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher) below.

<a id="selector-5f4505"></a>&#x2022; [`geo_location_label_selector`](#selector-5f4505) - Optional Block<br>Type can be used to establish a 'selector reference' from one object(called selector) to a set of other objects(called selectees) based on the value of expressions. A label selector is a label query over a set of resources. An empty label selector matches all objects<br>See [Geo Location
Label Selector](#selector-5f4505) below.

<a id="rule-list-rules-geo-location-set"></a>&#x2022; [`geo_location_set`](#rule-list-rules-geo-location-set) - Optional Block<br>Type establishes a direct reference from one object(the referrer) to another(the referred). Such a reference is in form of tenant/namespace/name<br>See [Geo Location Set](#rule-list-rules-geo-location-set) below.

<a id="rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-list"></a>&#x2022; [`ip_prefix_list`](#rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-list) - Optional Block<br>List of IP Prefix strings to match against<br>See [IP Prefix List](#rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-list) below.

<a id="rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-set"></a>&#x2022; [`ip_prefix_set`](#rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-set) - Optional Block<br>Match any IP prefix contained in the list of ip_prefix_sets. The result of the match is inverted if invert_matcher is true<br>See [IP Prefix Set](#rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-set) below.

<a id="rule-list-rules-pool"></a>&#x2022; [`pool`](#rule-list-rules-pool) - Optional Block<br>Type establishes a direct reference from one object(the referrer) to another(the referred). Such a reference is in form of tenant/namespace/name<br>See [Pool](#rule-list-rules-pool) below.

<a id="rule-list-rules-score"></a>&#x2022; [`score`](#rule-list-rules-score) - Optional Number<br>When multiple load balancing rules match a query, the one with the highest score is chosen

#### Rule List Rules Asn List

An [`asn_list`](#rule-list-rules-asn-list) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="rule-list-rules-asn-list-as-numbers"></a>&#x2022; [`as_numbers`](#rule-list-rules-asn-list-as-numbers) - Optional List<br>Unordered set of RFC 6793 defined 4-byte AS numbers that can be used to create allow or deny lists for use in network policy or service policy. It can be used to create the allow list only for DNS Load Balancer

#### Rule List Rules Asn Matcher

An [`asn_matcher`](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="rule-list-rules-asn-matcher-asn-sets"></a>&#x2022; [`asn_sets`](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher-asn-sets) - Optional Block<br>List of references to bgp_asn_set objects<br>See [Asn Sets](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher-asn-sets) below.

#### Rule List Rules Asn Matcher Asn Sets

An [`asn_sets`](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher-asn-sets) block (within [`rule_list.rules.asn_matcher`](#rule-list-rules-asn-matcher)) supports the following:

<a id="name-378ca0"></a>&#x2022; [`name`](#name-378ca0) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then name will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) name

<a id="namespace-963f1b"></a>&#x2022; [`namespace`](#namespace-963f1b) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then namespace will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) namespace

<a id="kind-bd89a0"></a>&#x2022; [`kind`](#kind-bd89a0) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then kind will hold the referred object's kind (e.g. 'route')

<a id="tenant-c46e8d"></a>&#x2022; [`tenant`](#tenant-c46e8d) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then tenant will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) tenant

<a id="uid-ec2c4e"></a>&#x2022; [`uid`](#uid-ec2c4e) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then uid will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) uid

#### Rule List Rules Geo Location Label Selector

A [`geo_location_label_selector`](#selector-5f4505) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="expressions-7e492b"></a>&#x2022; [`expressions`](#expressions-7e492b) - Optional List<br>Expressions contains the Kubernetes style label expression for selections

#### Rule List Rules Geo Location Set

A [`geo_location_set`](#rule-list-rules-geo-location-set) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="rule-list-rules-geo-location-set-name"></a>&#x2022; [`name`](#rule-list-rules-geo-location-set-name) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then name will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) name

<a id="namespace-92cf39"></a>&#x2022; [`namespace`](#namespace-92cf39) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then namespace will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) namespace

<a id="rule-list-rules-geo-location-set-tenant"></a>&#x2022; [`tenant`](#rule-list-rules-geo-location-set-tenant) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then tenant will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) tenant

#### Rule List Rules IP Prefix List

An [`ip_prefix_list`](#rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-list) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="match-e89cea"></a>&#x2022; [`invert_match`](#match-e89cea) - Optional Bool<br>Invert Match Result. Invert the match result

<a id="prefixes-3033cf"></a>&#x2022; [`ip_prefixes`](#prefixes-3033cf) - Optional List<br>IPv4 Prefix List. List of IPv4 prefix strings

#### Rule List Rules IP Prefix Set

An [`ip_prefix_set`](#rule-list-rules-ip-prefix-set) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="matcher-727022"></a>&#x2022; [`invert_matcher`](#matcher-727022) - Optional Bool<br>Invert IP Matcher. Invert the match result

<a id="sets-74d68b"></a>&#x2022; [`prefix_sets`](#sets-74d68b) - Optional Block<br>List of references to ip_prefix_set objects<br>See [Prefix Sets](#sets-74d68b) below.

#### Rule List Rules IP Prefix Set Prefix Sets

<a id="deep-073082"></a>Deeply nested **Sets** block collapsed for readability.

#### Rule List Rules Pool

A [`pool`](#rule-list-rules-pool) block (within [`rule_list.rules`](#rule-list-rules)) supports the following:

<a id="rule-list-rules-pool-name"></a>&#x2022; [`name`](#rule-list-rules-pool-name) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then name will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) name

<a id="rule-list-rules-pool-namespace"></a>&#x2022; [`namespace`](#rule-list-rules-pool-namespace) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then namespace will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) namespace

<a id="rule-list-rules-pool-tenant"></a>&#x2022; [`tenant`](#rule-list-rules-pool-tenant) - Optional String<br>When a configuration object(e.g. Virtual_host) refers to another(e.g route) then tenant will hold the referred object's(e.g. Route's) tenant

#### Timeouts

A [`timeouts`](#timeouts) block supports the following:

<a id="timeouts-create"></a>&#x2022; [`create`](#timeouts-create) - Optional String (Defaults to `10 minutes`)<br>Used when creating the resource

<a id="timeouts-delete"></a>&#x2022; [`delete`](#timeouts-delete) - Optional String (Defaults to `10 minutes`)<br>Used when deleting the resource

<a id="timeouts-read"></a>&#x2022; [`read`](#timeouts-read) - Optional String (Defaults to `5 minutes`)<br>Used when retrieving the resource

<a id="timeouts-update"></a>&#x2022; [`update`](#timeouts-update) - Optional String (Defaults to `10 minutes`)<br>Used when updating the resource

---

## Common Types

The following type definitions are used throughout this resource. See the full definition here rather than repeated inline.

### Object Reference {#common-object-reference}

Object references establish a direct reference from one configuration object to another in F5 Distributed Cloud. References use the format `tenant/namespace/name`.

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| `name` | String | Name of the referenced object |
| `namespace` | String | Namespace containing the referenced object |
| `tenant` | String | Tenant of the referenced object (system-managed) |

### Transformers {#common-transformers}

Transformers apply transformations to input values before matching. Multiple transformers can be applied in order.

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `LOWER_CASE` | Convert to lowercase |
| `UPPER_CASE` | Convert to uppercase |
| `BASE64_DECODE` | Decodebase64 content |
| `NORMALIZE_PATH` | Normalize URL path |
| `REMOVE_WHITESPACE` | Remove whitespace characters |
| `URL_DECODE` | Decode URL-encoded characters |
| `TRIM_LEFT` | Trim leading whitespace |
| `TRIM_RIGHT` | Trim trailing whitespace |
| `TRIM` | Trim both leading and trailing whitespace |

### HTTP Methods {#common-http-methods}

HTTP methods used for request matching.

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `ANY` | Match any HTTP method |
| `GET` | HTTP GET request |
| `HEAD` | HTTP HEAD request |
| `POST` | HTTP POST request |
| `PUT` | HTTP PUT request |
| `DELETE` | HTTP DELETE request |
| `CONNECT` | HTTP CONNECT request |
| `OPTIONS` | HTTP OPTIONS request |
| `TRACE` | HTTP TRACE request |
| `PATCH` | HTTP PATCH request |
| `COPY` | HTTP COPY request (WebDAV) |

### TLS Fingerprints {#common-tls-fingerprints}

TLS fingerprint categories for malicious client detection.

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `TLS_FINGERPRINT_NONE` | No fingerprint matching |
| `ANY_MALICIOUS_FINGERPRINT` | Match any known malicious fingerprint |
| `ADWARE` | Adware-associated fingerprints |
| `DRIDEX` | Dridex malware fingerprints |
| `GOOTKIT` | Gootkit malware fingerprints |
| `RANSOMWARE` | Ransomware-associated fingerprints |
| `TRICKBOT` | Trickbot malware fingerprints |

### IP Threat Categories {#common-ip-threat-categories}

IP address threat categories for security filtering.

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `SPAM_SOURCES` | Known spam sources |
| `WINDOWS_EXPLOITS` | Windows exploit sources |
| `WEB_ATTACKS` | Web attack sources |
| `BOTNETS` | Known botnet IPs |
| `SCANNERS` | Network scanner IPs |
| `REPUTATION` | Poor reputation IPs |
| `PHISHING` | Phishing-related IPs |
| `PROXY` | Anonymous proxy IPs |
| `MOBILE_THREATS` | Mobile threat sources |
| `TOR_PROXY` | Tor exit nodes |
| `DENIAL_OF_SERVICE` | DoS attack sources |
| `NETWORK` | Known bad network ranges |

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Import using namespace/name format
terraform import xcsh_dns_load_balancer.example system/example
```
